articles/cognitive-services/Speech-Service/language-support.md, before:

---
title: Language support - Speech Service
titleSuffix: Azure Cognitive Services
description: The Speech Service supports numerous languages for speech-to-text and text-to-speech conversion, along with speech translation. This article provides a comprehensive list of language support by service feature.
services: cognitive-services
author: erhopf
manager: nitinme
ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.subservice: speech-service
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 07/05/2019
ms.author: erhopf
ms.custom: seodec18
---

# Language and region support for the Speech Services

Different languages are supported for different Speech Services functions. The following tables summarize language support.

## Speech-to-text

Both the Microsoft speech recognition SDK and the REST API support the following languages (locales). Different levels of customization are available for each language.

  Code | Language | [Acoustic adaptation](how-to-customize-acoustic-models.md) | [Language adaptation](how-to-customize-language-model.md) | [Pronunciation adaptation](how-to-customize-pronunciation.md)
 ------|----------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------
 ar-EG | Arabic (Egypt), modern standard | No | Yes | No
 ca-ES | Catalan | No | No | No
 da-DK | Danish (Denmark) | No | No | No
 de-DE | German (Germany) | Yes | Yes | Yes
 en-AU | English (Australia) | No | Yes | No
 en-CA | English (Canada) | No | Yes | No
 en-GB | English (United Kingdom) | No | Yes | No
 en-IN | English (India) | Yes | Yes | No
 en-NZ | English (New Zealand) | No | Yes | No 
 en-US | English (United States) | Yes | Yes | Yes
 es-ES | Spanish (Spain) | Yes | Yes | No
 es-MX | Spanish (Mexico) | No | Yes | No
 fi-FI | Finnish (Finland) | No | No | No
 fr-CA | French (Canada) | No | Yes | No
 fr-FR | French (France) | Yes | Yes | No
 hi-IN | Hindi (India) | No | Yes | No
 it-IT | Italian (Italy) | Yes | Yes | No
 ja-JP | Japanese (Japan) | No | Yes | No
 ko-KR | Korean (Korea) | No | Yes | No
 nb-NO | Norwegian (Bokmål) (Norway) | No | No | No
 nl-NL | Dutch (Netherlands) | No | Yes | No
 pl-PL | Polish (Poland) | No | No | No
 pt-BR | Portuguese (Brazil) | Yes | Yes | No
 pt-PT | Portuguese (Portugal) | No | Yes | No
 ru-RU | Russian (Russia) | Yes | Yes | No
 sv-SE | Swedish (Sweden) | No | No | No
 zh-CN | Chinese (Mandarin, simplified) | Yes | Yes | No
 zh-HK | Chinese (Cantonese, Traditional) | No | Yes | No
 zh-TW | Chinese (Taiwanese Mandarin) | No | Yes | No
 th-TH | Thai (Thailand) | No | No | No


## Text-to-speech

The text-to-speech REST API supports these voices, each of which supports a specific language and dialect, identified by locale.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Pricing varies for standard, custom and neural voices. Please visit the [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/speech-services/) page for additional information.

### Neural voices

Neural text-to-speech is a new type of speech synthesis powered by deep neural networks. When using a neural voice, synthesized speech is nearly indistinguishable from the human recordings.

Neural voices can be used to make interactions with chatbots and virtual assistants more natural and engaging, convert digital texts such as e-books into audiobooks and enhance in-car navigation systems. With the human-like natural prosody and clear articulation of words, neural voices significantly reduce listening fatigue when users interact with AI systems.

For a full list of neural voices and regional availability, see [regions](regions.md#standard-and-neural-voices).

Locale | Language | Gender | Full service name mapping | Short voice name
--------|----------|--------|---------|------------
de-DE | German (Germany) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, KatjaNeural)" | "de-DE-KatjaNeural"
en-US | English (US) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, GuyNeural)" | "en-US-GuyNeural"
en-US | English (US) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, JessaNeural)" | "en-US-JessaNeural"
it-IT | Italian (Italy) | Female |"Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (it-IT, ElsaNeural)" | "it-IT-ElsaNeural"
zh-CN | Chinese (Mainland) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, XiaoxiaoNeural)" | "zh-CN-XiaoxiaoNeural"

> [!NOTE]
> You can use either the full service name mapping or the short voice name in your speech synthesis requests.

### Standard voices

More than 75 standard voices are available in over 45 languages and locales, which allow you to convert text into synthesized speech. For more information about regional availability, see [regions](regions.md#standard-and-neural-voices).

Locale | Language | Gender | Full service name mapping | Short voice name
-------|----------|---------|----------|----------
ar-EG\* | Arabic (Egypt) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ar-EG, Hoda)" | "ar-EG-Hoda"
ar-SA | Arabic (Saudi Arabia) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ar-SA, Naayf)" | "ar-SA-Naayf"
bg-BG | Bulgarian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (bg-BG, Ivan)" | "bg-BG-Ivan"
ca-ES | Catalan (Spain) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ca-ES, HerenaRUS)" | "ca-ES-HerenaRUS"
cs-CZ | Czech | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (cs-CZ, Jakub)" | "cs-CZ-Jakub"
da-DK | Danish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (da-DK, HelleRUS)" | "da-DK-HelleRUS"
de-AT | German (Austria) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-AT, Michael)" | "de-AT-Michael"
de-CH | German (Switzerland) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-CH, Karsten)" | "de-CH-Karsten"
de-DE | German (Germany) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, Hedda)" | "de-DE-Hedda"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, HeddaRUS)" | "de-DE-HeddaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, Stefan, Apollo)" | "de-DE-Stefan-Apollo"
el-GR | Greek | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (el-GR, Stefanos)" | "el-GR-Stefanos"
en-AU | English (Australia) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-AU, Catherine)" | "en-AU-Catherine"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-AU, HayleyRUS)" | "en-AU-HayleyRUS"
en-CA | English (Canada) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-CA, Linda)" | "en-CA-Linda"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-CA, HeatherRUS)" | "en-CA-HeatherRUS"
en-GB | English (UK) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-GB, Susan, Apollo)" | "en-GB-Susan-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-GB, HazelRUS)" | "en-GB-HazelRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-GB, George, Apollo)" | "en-GB-George-Apollo"
en-IE | English (Ireland) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IE, Sean)" | "en-IE-Sean"
en-IN | English (India) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IN, Heera, Apollo)" | "en-IN-Heera-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IN, PriyaRUS)" | "en-IN-PriyaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IN, Ravi, Apollo)" | "en-IN-Ravi-Apollo"
en-US | English (US) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, ZiraRUS)" | "en-US-ZiraRUS"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, JessaRUS)" | "en-US-JessaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, BenjaminRUS)" | "en-US-BenjaminRUS"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, Jessa24kRUS)" | "en-US-Jessa24kRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, Guy24kRUS)" | "en-US-Guy24kRUS"
es-ES | Spanish (Spain) |Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-ES, Laura, Apollo)" | "es-ES-Laura-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-ES, HelenaRUS)" | "es-ES-HelenaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-ES, Pablo, Apollo)" | "es-ES-Pablo-Apollo"
es-MX | Spanish (Mexico) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-MX, HildaRUS)" | "es-MX-HildaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-MX, Raul, Apollo)" | "es-MX-Raul-Apollo"
fi-FI | Finnish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fi-FI, HeidiRUS)" | "fi-FI-HeidiRUS"
fr-CA | French (Canada) |Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-CA, Caroline)" | "fr-CA-Caroline"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-CA, HarmonieRUS)" | "fr-CA-HarmonieRUS"
fr-CH | French (Switzerland)| Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-CH, Guillaume)" | "fr-CH-Guillaume"
fr-FR | French (France)| Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-FR, Julie, Apollo)" | "fr-FR-Julie-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-FR, HortenseRUS)" | "fr-FR-HortenseRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-FR, Paul, Apollo)" | "fr-FR-Paul-Apollo"
he-IL| Hebrew (Israel) | Male| "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (he-IL, Asaf)" | "he-IL-Asaf"
hi-IN | Hindi (India) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hi-IN, Kalpana, Apollo)" | "hi-IN-Kalpana-Apollo"
| | |Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hi-IN, Kalpana)" | "hi-IN-Kalpana"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hi-IN, Hemant)" | "hi-IN-Hemant"
hr-HR | Croatian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hr-HR, Matej)" | "hr-HR-Matej"
hu-HU | Hungarian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hu-HU, Szabolcs)" | "hu-HU-Szabolcs"
id-ID | Indonesian| Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (id-ID, Andika)" | "id-ID-Andika"
it-IT | Italian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (it-IT, Cosimo, Apollo)" | "it-IT-Cosimo-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (it-IT, LuciaRUS)" | "it-IT-LuciaRUS"
ja-JP | Japanese | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ja-JP, Ayumi, Apollo)" | "ja-JP-Ayumi-Apollo"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ja-JP, Ichiro, Apollo)" | "ja-JP-Ichiro-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ja-JP, HarukaRUS)" | "ja-JP-HarukaRUS"
ko-KR | Korean | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ko-KR, HeamiRUS)" | "ko-KR-HeamiRUS"
ms-MY | Malay | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ms-MY, Rizwan)" | "ms-MY-Rizwan"
nb-NO | Norwegian | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (nb-NO, HuldaRUS)" | "nb-NO-HuldaRUS"
nl-NL | Dutch | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (nl-NL, HannaRUS)" | "nl-NL-HannaRUS"
pl-PL | Polish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pl-PL, PaulinaRUS)" | "pl-PL-PaulinaRUS"
pt-BR | Portuguese (Brazil) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pt-BR, HeloisaRUS)" | "pt-BR-HeloisaRUS"
| | | Male |"Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pt-BR, Daniel, Apollo)" | "pt-BR-Daniel-Apollo"
pt-PT | Portuguese (Portugal) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pt-PT, HeliaRUS)" | "pt-PT-HeliaRUS"
ro-RO | Romanian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ro-RO, Andrei)" | "ro-RO-Andrei"
ru-RU |Russian| Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ru-RU, Irina, Apollo)" | "ru-RU-Irina-Apollo"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ru-RU, Pavel, Apollo)" | "ru-RU-Pavel-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ru-RU, EkaterinaRUS)" | ru-RU-EkaterinaRUS
sk-SK | Slovak | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (sk-SK, Filip)" | "sk-SK-Filip"
sl-SI | Slovenian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (sl-SI, Lado)" | "sl-SI-Lado"
sv-SE | Swedish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (sv-SE, HedvigRUS)" | "sv-SE-HedvigRUS"
ta-IN | Tamil (India) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ta-IN, Valluvar)" | "ta-IN-Valluvar"
te-IN | Telugu (India) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (te-IN, Chitra)" | "te-IN-Chitra"
th-TH | Thai | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (th-TH, Pattara)" | "th-TH-Pattara"
tr-TR | Turkish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (tr-TR, SedaRUS)" | "tr-TR-SedaRUS"
vi-VN | Vietnamese | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (vi-VN, An)" | "vi-VN-An"
zh-CN | Chinese (Mainland) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, HuihuiRUS)" | "zh-CN-HuihuiRUS"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, Yaoyao, Apollo)" | "zh-CN-Yaoyao-Apollo"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, Kangkang, Apollo)" | "zh-CN-Kangkang-Apollo"
zh-HK | Chinese (Hong Kong) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-HK, Tracy, Apollo)" | "zh-HK-Tracy-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-HK, TracyRUS)" | "zh-HK-TracyRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-HK, Danny, Apollo)" | "zh-HK-Danny-Apollo"
zh-TW | Chinese (Taiwan) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-TW, Yating, Apollo)" | "zh-TW-Yating-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-TW, HanHanRUS)" | "zh-TW-HanHanRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-TW, Zhiwei, Apollo)" | "zh-TW-Zhiwei-Apollo"

\* *ar-EG supports Modern Standard Arabic (MSA).*

> [!NOTE]
> You can use either the full service name mapping or the short voice name in your speech synthesis requests.

### Customization

Voice customization is available for de-DE, en-GB, en-IN, en-US, es-MX, fr-FR, it-IT, pt-BR, and zh-CN. Select the right locale that matches the training data you have to train a custom voice model. For example, if the recording data you have is spoken in English with a British accent, select en-GB.  

> [!NOTE]
> We do not support bi-lingual model training in Custom Voice, except for the Chinese-English bi-lingual. Select 'Chinese-English bilingual' if you want to train a Chinese voice that can speak English as well. Voice training in all locales starts with a data set of 2,000+ utterances, except for the en-US and zh-CN where you can start with any size of training data.

## Speech translation

The **Speech Translation** API supports different languages for speech-to-speech and speech-to-text translation. The source language must always be from the Speech-to-Text language table. The available target languages depend on whether the translation target is speech or text. You may translate incoming speech into more than [60 languages](https://www.microsoft.com/translator/business/languages/). A subset of these languages are available for [speech synthesis](language-support.md#text-languages).

### Text languages

| Text language    | Language code |
|:----------- |:-------------:|
| Afrikaans      | `af`          |
| Arabic       | `ar`          |
| Bangla      | `bn`          |
| Bosnian (Latin)      | `bs`          |
| Bulgarian      | `bg`          |
| Cantonese (Traditional)      | `yue`          |
| Catalan      | `ca`          |
| Chinese Simplified      | `zh-Hans`          |
| Chinese Traditional      | `zh-Hant`          |
| Croatian      | `hr`          |
| Czech      | `cs`          |
| Danish      | `da`          |
| Dutch      | `nl`          |
| English      | `en`          |
| Estonian      | `et`          |
| Fijian      | `fj`          |
| Filipino      | `fil`          |
| Finnish      | `fi`          |
| French      | `fr`          |
| German      | `de`          |
| Greek      | `el`          |
| Haitian Creole      | `ht`          |
| Hebrew      | `he`          |
| Hindi      | `hi`          |
| Hmong Daw      | `mww`          |
| Hungarian      | `hu`          |
| Indonesian      | `id`          |
| Italian      | `it`          |
| Japanese      | `ja`          |
| Kiswahili      | `sw`          |
| Klingon      | `tlh`          |
| Klingon (plqaD)      | `tlh-Qaak`          |
| Korean      | `ko`          |
| Latvian      | `lv`          |
| Lithuanian      | `lt`          |
| Malagasy      | `mg`          |
| Malay      | `ms`          |
| Maltese      | `mt`          |
| Norwegian      | `nb`          |
| Persian      | `fa`          |
| Polish      | `pl`          |
| Portuguese      | `pt`          |
| Queretaro Otomi      | `otq`          |
| Romanian      | `ro`          |
| Russian      | `ru`          |
| Samoan      | `sm`          |
| Serbian (Cyrillic)      | `sr-Cyrl`          |
| Serbian (Latin)      | `sr-Latn`          |
| Slovak     | `sk`          |
| Slovenian      | `sl`          |
| Spanish      | `es`          |
| Swedish      | `sv`          |
| Tahitian      | `ty`          |
| Tamil      | `ta`          |
| Thai      | `th`          |
| Tongan      | `to`          |
| Turkish      | `tr`          |
| Ukrainian      | `uk`          |
| Urdu      | `ur`          |
| Vietnamese      | `vi`          |
| Welsh      | `cy`          |
| Yucatec Maya      | `yua`          |


## Next steps

* [Get your Speech Services trial subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/try/cognitive-services/)
* [See how to recognize speech in C#](quickstart-csharp-dotnet-windows.md)

Commit message:

Replace table with training data requirement
Fixed links and remove info on acoustic and language adaptation in language table.

articles/cognitive-services/Speech-Service/language-support.md, after:

---
title: Language support - Speech Service
titleSuffix: Azure Cognitive Services
description: The Speech Service supports numerous languages for speech-to-text and text-to-speech conversion, along with speech translation. This article provides a comprehensive list of language support by service feature.
services: cognitive-services
author: erhopf
manager: nitinme
ms.service: cognitive-services
ms.subservice: speech-service
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 07/05/2019
ms.author: erhopf
ms.custom: seodec18
---

# Language and region support for the Speech Services

Different languages are supported for different Speech Services functions. The following tables summarize language support.

## Speech-to-text

Both the Microsoft speech recognition SDK and the REST API support the following languages (locales). Improving accuracy through customization is possible for overall quality by uploading audio plus transcripts or related text of sentences to your scenario.  To improve keyword recognition you can so upload related of word pronunciations.  See below for support in each language.

  Code | Language | [Audio + transcripts](how-to-custom-speech-train-model.md) | [Related Text of Sentences](how-to-custom-speech-train-model.md) | [Related Text of Word Pronunciations](how-to-custom-speech-train-model.md)
 ------|----------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------
 ar-EG | Arabic (Egypt), modern standard | No | Yes | No
 ca-ES | Catalan | No | No | No
 da-DK | Danish (Denmark) | No | No | No
 de-DE | German (Germany) | Yes | Yes | Yes
 en-AU | English (Australia) | No | Yes | No
 en-CA | English (Canada) | No | Yes | No
 en-GB | English (United Kingdom) | No | Yes | No
 en-IN | English (India) | Yes | Yes | No
 en-NZ | English (New Zealand) | No | Yes | No 
 en-US | English (United States) | Yes | Yes | Yes
 es-ES | Spanish (Spain) | Yes | Yes | No
 es-MX | Spanish (Mexico) | No | Yes | No
 fi-FI | Finnish (Finland) | No | No | No
 fr-CA | French (Canada) | No | Yes | No
 fr-FR | French (France) | Yes | Yes | No
 hi-IN | Hindi (India) | No | Yes | No
 it-IT | Italian (Italy) | Yes | Yes | No
 ja-JP | Japanese (Japan) | No | Yes | No
 ko-KR | Korean (Korea) | No | Yes | No
 nb-NO | Norwegian (Bokmål) (Norway) | No | No | No
 nl-NL | Dutch (Netherlands) | No | Yes | No
 pl-PL | Polish (Poland) | No | No | No
 pt-BR | Portuguese (Brazil) | Yes | Yes | No
 pt-PT | Portuguese (Portugal) | No | Yes | No
 ru-RU | Russian (Russia) | Yes | Yes | No
 sv-SE | Swedish (Sweden) | No | No | No
 zh-CN | Chinese (Mandarin, simplified) | Yes | Yes | No
 zh-HK | Chinese (Cantonese, Traditional) | No | Yes | No
 zh-TW | Chinese (Taiwanese Mandarin) | No | Yes | No
 th-TH | Thai (Thailand) | No | No | No


## Text-to-speech

The text-to-speech REST API supports these voices, each of which supports a specific language and dialect, identified by locale.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Pricing varies for standard, custom and neural voices. Please visit the [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/speech-services/) page for additional information.

### Neural voices

Neural text-to-speech is a new type of speech synthesis powered by deep neural networks. When using a neural voice, synthesized speech is nearly indistinguishable from the human recordings.

Neural voices can be used to make interactions with chatbots and virtual assistants more natural and engaging, convert digital texts such as e-books into audiobooks and enhance in-car navigation systems. With the human-like natural prosody and clear articulation of words, neural voices significantly reduce listening fatigue when users interact with AI systems.

For a full list of neural voices and regional availability, see [regions](regions.md#standard-and-neural-voices).

Locale | Language | Gender | Full service name mapping | Short voice name
--------|----------|--------|---------|------------
de-DE | German (Germany) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, KatjaNeural)" | "de-DE-KatjaNeural"
en-US | English (US) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, GuyNeural)" | "en-US-GuyNeural"
en-US | English (US) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, JessaNeural)" | "en-US-JessaNeural"
it-IT | Italian (Italy) | Female |"Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (it-IT, ElsaNeural)" | "it-IT-ElsaNeural"
zh-CN | Chinese (Mainland) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, XiaoxiaoNeural)" | "zh-CN-XiaoxiaoNeural"

> [!NOTE]
> You can use either the full service name mapping or the short voice name in your speech synthesis requests.

### Standard voices

More than 75 standard voices are available in over 45 languages and locales, which allow you to convert text into synthesized speech. For more information about regional availability, see [regions](regions.md#standard-and-neural-voices).

Locale | Language | Gender | Full service name mapping | Short voice name
-------|----------|---------|----------|----------
ar-EG\* | Arabic (Egypt) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ar-EG, Hoda)" | "ar-EG-Hoda"
ar-SA | Arabic (Saudi Arabia) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ar-SA, Naayf)" | "ar-SA-Naayf"
bg-BG | Bulgarian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (bg-BG, Ivan)" | "bg-BG-Ivan"
ca-ES | Catalan (Spain) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ca-ES, HerenaRUS)" | "ca-ES-HerenaRUS"
cs-CZ | Czech | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (cs-CZ, Jakub)" | "cs-CZ-Jakub"
da-DK | Danish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (da-DK, HelleRUS)" | "da-DK-HelleRUS"
de-AT | German (Austria) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-AT, Michael)" | "de-AT-Michael"
de-CH | German (Switzerland) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-CH, Karsten)" | "de-CH-Karsten"
de-DE | German (Germany) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, Hedda)" | "de-DE-Hedda"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, HeddaRUS)" | "de-DE-HeddaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (de-DE, Stefan, Apollo)" | "de-DE-Stefan-Apollo"
el-GR | Greek | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (el-GR, Stefanos)" | "el-GR-Stefanos"
en-AU | English (Australia) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-AU, Catherine)" | "en-AU-Catherine"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-AU, HayleyRUS)" | "en-AU-HayleyRUS"
en-CA | English (Canada) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-CA, Linda)" | "en-CA-Linda"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-CA, HeatherRUS)" | "en-CA-HeatherRUS"
en-GB | English (UK) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-GB, Susan, Apollo)" | "en-GB-Susan-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-GB, HazelRUS)" | "en-GB-HazelRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-GB, George, Apollo)" | "en-GB-George-Apollo"
en-IE | English (Ireland) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IE, Sean)" | "en-IE-Sean"
en-IN | English (India) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IN, Heera, Apollo)" | "en-IN-Heera-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IN, PriyaRUS)" | "en-IN-PriyaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-IN, Ravi, Apollo)" | "en-IN-Ravi-Apollo"
en-US | English (US) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, ZiraRUS)" | "en-US-ZiraRUS"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, JessaRUS)" | "en-US-JessaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, BenjaminRUS)" | "en-US-BenjaminRUS"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, Jessa24kRUS)" | "en-US-Jessa24kRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (en-US, Guy24kRUS)" | "en-US-Guy24kRUS"
es-ES | Spanish (Spain) |Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-ES, Laura, Apollo)" | "es-ES-Laura-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-ES, HelenaRUS)" | "es-ES-HelenaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-ES, Pablo, Apollo)" | "es-ES-Pablo-Apollo"
es-MX | Spanish (Mexico) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-MX, HildaRUS)" | "es-MX-HildaRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (es-MX, Raul, Apollo)" | "es-MX-Raul-Apollo"
fi-FI | Finnish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fi-FI, HeidiRUS)" | "fi-FI-HeidiRUS"
fr-CA | French (Canada) |Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-CA, Caroline)" | "fr-CA-Caroline"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-CA, HarmonieRUS)" | "fr-CA-HarmonieRUS"
fr-CH | French (Switzerland)| Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-CH, Guillaume)" | "fr-CH-Guillaume"
fr-FR | French (France)| Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-FR, Julie, Apollo)" | "fr-FR-Julie-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-FR, HortenseRUS)" | "fr-FR-HortenseRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (fr-FR, Paul, Apollo)" | "fr-FR-Paul-Apollo"
he-IL| Hebrew (Israel) | Male| "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (he-IL, Asaf)" | "he-IL-Asaf"
hi-IN | Hindi (India) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hi-IN, Kalpana, Apollo)" | "hi-IN-Kalpana-Apollo"
| | |Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hi-IN, Kalpana)" | "hi-IN-Kalpana"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hi-IN, Hemant)" | "hi-IN-Hemant"
hr-HR | Croatian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hr-HR, Matej)" | "hr-HR-Matej"
hu-HU | Hungarian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (hu-HU, Szabolcs)" | "hu-HU-Szabolcs"
id-ID | Indonesian| Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (id-ID, Andika)" | "id-ID-Andika"
it-IT | Italian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (it-IT, Cosimo, Apollo)" | "it-IT-Cosimo-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (it-IT, LuciaRUS)" | "it-IT-LuciaRUS"
ja-JP | Japanese | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ja-JP, Ayumi, Apollo)" | "ja-JP-Ayumi-Apollo"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ja-JP, Ichiro, Apollo)" | "ja-JP-Ichiro-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ja-JP, HarukaRUS)" | "ja-JP-HarukaRUS"
ko-KR | Korean | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ko-KR, HeamiRUS)" | "ko-KR-HeamiRUS"
ms-MY | Malay | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ms-MY, Rizwan)" | "ms-MY-Rizwan"
nb-NO | Norwegian | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (nb-NO, HuldaRUS)" | "nb-NO-HuldaRUS"
nl-NL | Dutch | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (nl-NL, HannaRUS)" | "nl-NL-HannaRUS"
pl-PL | Polish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pl-PL, PaulinaRUS)" | "pl-PL-PaulinaRUS"
pt-BR | Portuguese (Brazil) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pt-BR, HeloisaRUS)" | "pt-BR-HeloisaRUS"
| | | Male |"Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pt-BR, Daniel, Apollo)" | "pt-BR-Daniel-Apollo"
pt-PT | Portuguese (Portugal) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (pt-PT, HeliaRUS)" | "pt-PT-HeliaRUS"
ro-RO | Romanian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ro-RO, Andrei)" | "ro-RO-Andrei"
ru-RU |Russian| Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ru-RU, Irina, Apollo)" | "ru-RU-Irina-Apollo"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ru-RU, Pavel, Apollo)" | "ru-RU-Pavel-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ru-RU, EkaterinaRUS)" | ru-RU-EkaterinaRUS
sk-SK | Slovak | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (sk-SK, Filip)" | "sk-SK-Filip"
sl-SI | Slovenian | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (sl-SI, Lado)" | "sl-SI-Lado"
sv-SE | Swedish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (sv-SE, HedvigRUS)" | "sv-SE-HedvigRUS"
ta-IN | Tamil (India) | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (ta-IN, Valluvar)" | "ta-IN-Valluvar"
te-IN | Telugu (India) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (te-IN, Chitra)" | "te-IN-Chitra"
th-TH | Thai | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (th-TH, Pattara)" | "th-TH-Pattara"
tr-TR | Turkish | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (tr-TR, SedaRUS)" | "tr-TR-SedaRUS"
vi-VN | Vietnamese | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (vi-VN, An)" | "vi-VN-An"
zh-CN | Chinese (Mainland) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, HuihuiRUS)" | "zh-CN-HuihuiRUS"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, Yaoyao, Apollo)" | "zh-CN-Yaoyao-Apollo"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-CN, Kangkang, Apollo)" | "zh-CN-Kangkang-Apollo"
zh-HK | Chinese (Hong Kong) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-HK, Tracy, Apollo)" | "zh-HK-Tracy-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-HK, TracyRUS)" | "zh-HK-TracyRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-HK, Danny, Apollo)" | "zh-HK-Danny-Apollo"
zh-TW | Chinese (Taiwan) | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-TW, Yating, Apollo)" | "zh-TW-Yating-Apollo"
| | | Female | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-TW, HanHanRUS)" | "zh-TW-HanHanRUS"
| | | Male | "Microsoft Server Speech Text to Speech Voice (zh-TW, Zhiwei, Apollo)" | "zh-TW-Zhiwei-Apollo"

\* *ar-EG supports Modern Standard Arabic (MSA).*

> [!NOTE]
> You can use either the full service name mapping or the short voice name in your speech synthesis requests.

### Customization

Voice customization is available for de-DE, en-GB, en-IN, en-US, es-MX, fr-FR, it-IT, pt-BR, and zh-CN. Select the right locale that matches the training data you have to train a custom voice model. For example, if the recording data you have is spoken in English with a British accent, select en-GB.  

> [!NOTE]
> We do not support bi-lingual model training in Custom Voice, except for the Chinese-English bi-lingual. Select 'Chinese-English bilingual' if you want to train a Chinese voice that can speak English as well. Voice training in all locales starts with a data set of 2,000+ utterances, except for the en-US and zh-CN where you can start with any size of training data.

## Speech translation

The **Speech Translation** API supports different languages for speech-to-speech and speech-to-text translation. The source language must always be from the Speech-to-Text language table. The available target languages depend on whether the translation target is speech or text. You may translate incoming speech into more than [60 languages](https://www.microsoft.com/translator/business/languages/). A subset of these languages are available for [speech synthesis](language-support.md#text-languages).

### Text languages

| Text language    | Language code |
|:----------- |:-------------:|
| Afrikaans      | `af`          |
| Arabic       | `ar`          |
| Bangla      | `bn`          |
| Bosnian (Latin)      | `bs`          |
| Bulgarian      | `bg`          |
| Cantonese (Traditional)      | `yue`          |
| Catalan      | `ca`          |
| Chinese Simplified      | `zh-Hans`          |
| Chinese Traditional      | `zh-Hant`          |
| Croatian      | `hr`          |
| Czech      | `cs`          |
| Danish      | `da`          |
| Dutch      | `nl`          |
| English      | `en`          |
| Estonian      | `et`          |
| Fijian      | `fj`          |
| Filipino      | `fil`          |
| Finnish      | `fi`          |
| French      | `fr`          |
| German      | `de`          |
| Greek      | `el`          |
| Haitian Creole      | `ht`          |
| Hebrew      | `he`          |
| Hindi      | `hi`          |
| Hmong Daw      | `mww`          |
| Hungarian      | `hu`          |
| Indonesian      | `id`          |
| Italian      | `it`          |
| Japanese      | `ja`          |
| Kiswahili      | `sw`          |
| Klingon      | `tlh`          |
| Klingon (plqaD)      | `tlh-Qaak`          |
| Korean      | `ko`          |
| Latvian      | `lv`          |
| Lithuanian      | `lt`          |
| Malagasy      | `mg`          |
| Malay      | `ms`          |
| Maltese      | `mt`          |
| Norwegian      | `nb`          |
| Persian      | `fa`          |
| Polish      | `pl`          |
| Portuguese      | `pt`          |
| Queretaro Otomi      | `otq`          |
| Romanian      | `ro`          |
| Russian      | `ru`          |
| Samoan      | `sm`          |
| Serbian (Cyrillic)      | `sr-Cyrl`          |
| Serbian (Latin)      | `sr-Latn`          |
| Slovak     | `sk`          |
| Slovenian      | `sl`          |
| Spanish      | `es`          |
| Swedish      | `sv`          |
| Tahitian      | `ty`          |
| Tamil      | `ta`          |
| Thai      | `th`          |
| Tongan      | `to`          |
| Turkish      | `tr`          |
| Ukrainian      | `uk`          |
| Urdu      | `ur`          |
| Vietnamese      | `vi`          |
| Welsh      | `cy`          |
| Yucatec Maya      | `yua`          |


## Next steps

* [Get your Speech Services trial subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/try/cognitive-services/)
* [See how to recognize speech in C#](quickstart-csharp-dotnet-windows.md)
